# Advanced Vowel Analysis

This script is designed to do acoustic analysis of vowels on a whole linguistic corpus. 

## How to use it: 

- Open Praat
- Click the "Praat" button in the uppen menu
    - Open Praat Script
    - Select the script
- Click the "Run" button in the upper menu
- Follow the instructions provided by the script

**NOTE: PRAAT TENDS TO FLICKER A LOT WITH THIS KIND OF SCRIPTS, BE CAREFUL IF YOU ARE PHOTOSENSITIVE**


### Additional instructions: 

You should have 2 folders somewhere on your PC.

- The first one should contain the corpus, that is, .wav and .TextGrid files with corresponding names.
- The second one should be ideally empty and ready to be filled with the results generated by this script. 

Or you may just do it all in a single folder... 

For me it's a bit too chaotic, but if that is what you want, just input the same path twice. The script will not stand in your way. 

-----------------------------------------------------------

## Example of use:

You may try it with the example audio + TextGrid pair attached in this repository. For a bit of context, it is a young Spanish woman reading in an anechoic chamber. Her dialect employs 5 vowels /a/, /e/, /i/, /o/ and /u/. The segmentation was done automatically using MFA, so don't expect human level precision, however, it is perfectly serviceable for this example. If you want to simulate the script analysing a whole corpus, just copy and paste the pair a few times in the same folder


## Some other programs I have publicly available:

Vowel visualization tool designed to take in the output form this script:

https://swlbj4-gabriel-p0.shinyapps.io/Vowel_Visualizer/

(Really basic, made for classroom)

Spanish future tense searcher:

https://swlbj4-gabriel-p0.shinyapps.io/Buscador_de_futuros_interactivo/

(You put in text, you get back sentences containing your selected future tense)

Spanish present tense searcher:

https://swlbj4-gabriel-p0.shinyapps.io/spanish_present_tense_searcher/

(You put in text, you get back sentences containing present tense)

## Contact:
If you have any questions or problems, feel free to contact me at:

GabrielPisvejc@protonmail.com

